Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Log In  ⫽ 

Live

⫽ Eat

⫽ Experience

⫽ Conference Services

⫽ Services & Husky Card

Join the community!
Make campus your Husky Home—apply now  while space is available.

 » Live on Campus »

APPLY FOR HOUSING—NEW RESIDENTS
Applying for housing is easy but there are decisions you must make before filling out your
application. With that in mind, we created this housing application guide to answer questions
that students have about applying for on-campus housing.
Please note: This page is for new undergraduate residents. Please visit our other pages if you are a
current resident or graduate student to apply for housing.

How to apply for undergraduate housing
Follow these steps to complete your housing application:
Step 1: Fill out your HFS student profile.
Go to the StarRez Housing Portal 
Your HFS student profile determines your eligible housing and unlocks your application on the
appropriate date.
Before your application goes live, please read the Housing Agreement.
Step 2: Submit your housing application.
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/

Page 1 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

When your application is available you will see it listed on the StarRez Housing Portal .
You are now ready to complete your housing application.

When to apply for 2026–27 Housing
Assignment Timelines for Autumn Quarter Applicants
Your student status and housing application submission date determine your assignment
priority group, which impacts when and how you are assigned. If demand is high, commuting
distance may also be taken into consideration.
Family Housing: Students may apply any time after they have been admitted to UW.

9-Month Application Priority System
Priority RR and Priority 1 participate in room selection; all other priorities are assigned based
on application date and by commuting distance if waitlist is determined.
PRIORITY RR
Current residents: April 2–8
PRIORITY 1
New first-years: May 4–13
PRIORITY 2
New first-years: May 14–31 AND new transfers: May 4–31
PRIORITY 3
New first-years and transfers: June 1–30
PRIORITY 4
New first-years and transfers: July 1–31 AND Continuing UW and new post-bac students: May
4–July 31
PRIORITY 5
All applicants who apply between August 1–31
PRIORITY 6
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/

Page 2 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

All applicants who apply on or after September 1 AND non-matriculated students who apply
on or after May 4

12-Month Application Priority System
Priority RR and Priority 1 participate in room selection; all other priorities are assigned based
on application date and by commuting distance if waitlist is determined.
PRIORITY RR
Current residents: April 2–8
PRIORITY 1
Newly admitted grads: April 2–May 31 AND new transfers: May 4–31
PRIORITY 2
New first-years: May 4–31
PRIORITY 3
All applicants who apply on or after June 1 AND Continuing UW students who apply on or
after May 4
PRIORITY 4
Non-matriculated students who apply on or after May 4

Room assignments
Information about how rooms will be assigned within 9-month residences will be sent in July,
and room assignment notifications will be sent in August.
Students who apply for 12-month apartments will participate in room selection starting in
mid-May. Information will be provided as the time nears.
Students who apply for family housing will be assigned by HFS based on availability and
priority.

Before you apply
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/

Page 3 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

You will need this information during the application process:
Determine which agreement length you prefer. Undergraduate students can apply for
either 9-month residences or 12-month apartments.
Which building, type of room and bathroom type you prefer
If you are choosing a Living Learning Community
If you are interested in a gender-inclusive or mixed-gender room
Your choice of dining level
Your choice of roommate(s) (optional)

You will also need to
Agree to the application's terms
Electronically sign the agreement
Pay a $500 prepayment
A $500 prepayment is required for on-campus housing. Paying the prepayment is the last step
in submitting your application. Your prepayment will be applied to your autumn quarter
housing statement. Some students with financial need may submit the application without
prepayment.

Room options
Your Husky Home experience can be as unique as you are!

Living Learning Communities
Students who select a Living Learning Community (LLC) live together in the same area of a
residence hall. Students have opportunities to connect outside of the classroom around
common interests. LLCs integrate academic and social learning through faculty and sta"
guidance and holistic education.
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/

Page 4 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Black Affinity Housing
Black A!nity Housing  is o"ered to all incoming and returning students in partnership
with O!ce of Minority A"airs & Diversity , Black Student Union  and ASUW Black
Student Commission . This community will provide a space within our residence halls to
promote personal wellness, social connectedness, and academic success centering the Black
student experience.

Single-gender rooms
Most shared rooms within the residence halls are assigned to two or more students of the
same gender. If you don't specify your preference for a di"erent type of assignment, you can
expect to be in a room with another person or people whose gender is the same as yours
according to their record with the UW.

Gender-inclusive rooms
It is important to us that all UW housing options are welcoming for all students. The genderinclusive room option is intended to provide a welcoming and supportive environment for
residents across the spectrum of gender identity, gender expression, biological sex, sexual
identity, and allied members of the community.

Mixed-gender rooms
Mixed-gender rooms and apartments are open to all students, regardless of your
gender. You can specify on your application that you want to live with a person of a di"erent
gender, and put that person's UW student ID number in your application as your mutual
roommate request.

If you are considering Greek life
Many students choose to join sororities or fraternities instead of living in the residence halls,
and most of them participate in the formal recruitment held yearly. To learn more about the
Greek formal recruitment process, please visit the UW O!ce of Fraternity & Sorority Life .
Students who apply for housing with HFS and sign up for Greek recruitment will be handled
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/

Page 5 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

di"erently based on their student type, application type, and HFS cancellation date.

Fraternity pledge
For newly admitted first year and transfer students who pledge with IFC fraternities on good
standing by TBD:
HFS will cancel the housing application at no cost, and
HFS will refund the student's prepayment
All other students:
Must cancel their own housing application, and
Are subject to cancellation charges.

Panhellenic primary recruitment
For newly admitted first year and transfer students who register for recruitment by TBD:
HFS will cancel their 9-month housing application at no cost, and
HFS will refund the student's deposit, and
HFS will guarantee an open space if they apply for on-campus housing after having
participated in recruitment, and
Students who accept a bid to a sorority that can't o"er a space to live in the house will be
able to live in on-campus housing
All other students:
Must cancel their own housing application, and
Are subject to cancellation charges.

Requesting a specific roommate
You may request a specific roommate on your application. Your request will be
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/

Page 6 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

accommodated if:
Both applications are for the same agreement length
Both applications have identical housing preferences
Both applicants have the same assignment priority
Space is available
If you want to request a specific roommate on your housing application, you will need their
UW student ID number. We cannot guarantee requested roommates will be assigned
together.



Students who request and are approved for a gender-inclusive room will be assigned with
another student who has requested the same. Students who request a mixed-gender room
and apply with a mutually requested roommate will be assigned together in the same room.
Except as required by law, assignments to UW housing facilities provided for students are
made without regard to race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, disability, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, or military status.

Finding a roommate
You are not required to find your own roommate; however, if you would like to, please
consider the following resources: (you will be required to use your UW email address to use
the message boards):
Roommate Finder  message board
For members of the LGBTQIA+ communities, the Q Center’s Queer-Positive Roommate
Message Board 
If you don’t find a roommate on your own, we will assign one or more for you.

Select a dining level
The Resident Dining Program is a reliable and easy way for residents to eat and shop on
campus. You may be required to have a dining plan unless you live in Mercer Court, Stevens
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/

Page 7 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Court or a studio apartment, where the dining account is optional.

Accommodation of students with disabilities
Students with individual accommodation or accessibility needs will follow the same housing
application process as all students to apply for UW housing. In addition, the student will then
register with UW’s Disability Resources for Students  (DRS).
Family Housing applicants with a disabled family member may follow the same guidelines for
application and registration with DRS.

Parking near your building
Depending on where you live on campus, parking areas and loading zones may not be located
close to your building. Please be aware of this before making housing choices. A map of
parking areas  can be found on the UW website.

Cancellation charges
If you decide to cancel your application and assignment, cancellation charges will be based
on the date you submit your notice .

If you are not a new resident, visit our other application
pages.

https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/

Page 8 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Are you a current
resident?

Are you a graduate
student?

Learn more about the perks of
returning to HFS housing and how to
apply.

Learn more about applying for
graduate housing.

Apply for Housing—Current
Residents



Apply for Housing—Grad
Students



Questions? We're here to help!

HFS

UW

CONNECT WITH US

Contact Us

Husky Health & Wellbeing

About HFS
Services & Operations

MyUW
Student Life



Husky Card
Sta! Jobs

Disability Resources for
Students

https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/











1045 NE Campus Parkway
Seattle, WA 98105
⫽ hfsinfo@uw.edu
Page 9 of 10

Apply for Housing—New Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Meeting Space

Accessible Technology

Summer Conferences
Intern Housing

Sustainability

© 2026 HOUSING & FOOD SERVICES ⫽ UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
 ⫽  ⫽ 

https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-new-residents/



Husky Map

PRIVACY ⫽ TERMS
π

Page 10 of 10

