How to Apply for Housing for Current/Returning Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Log In  ⫽ 

Live

⫽ Eat

⫽ Experience

⫽ Conference Services

⫽ Services & Husky Card

Join the community!
Make campus your Husky Home—apply now  while space is available.

 » Live on Campus »

APPLY FOR HOUSING—CURRENT RESIDENTS

Current Residents receive Returning Resident priority, meaning you will get firstchoice priority when it comes time to pick your room!

Rediscover your Husky Home!
Did you know that 3,300 HFS residents are 2nd-year students or more? Live with the Pack!
Please note: This page is for current undergraduate residents. Please visit our other pages if you
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-current-residents/

Page 1 of 8

How to Apply for Housing for Current/Returning Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

are a new undergraduate resident or graduate student to apply for housing.

Still thinking about it?
Watch our video to hear from residents about why they decided to live on campus again.

UW HFS | Returning to Campus Housing
UWHFS

Watch on

First choice priority registration
As a returning resident, you receive Returning Resident priority, meaning you will get firstchoice priority when it comes time to pick your room!

Choose a residence hall or apartment
If you are not already familiar with the room types and apartments we o"er, you can explore
all of our buildings online. Be sure to check out our virtual tours!

https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-current-residents/

Page 2 of 8

How to Apply for Housing for Current/Returning Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

How to apply
Step 1:  Update your HFS student profile now on StarRez Housing Portal 
Step 2:  Fill out the application  beginning at 2 pm on April 2
Step 3:  Complete your application by 11:59 pm on April 12 to get highest priority

Before you apply
Decide on a 9- or 12-month agreement
Read the 2026–27 housing agreement
Review next year’s rates
Determine if you want to return to your current room
If you have a new disability accommodation requirement, contact Disability Resources
for Students 
Consider your choices for housing options
Check your email and StarRez Housing Portal  messages frequently for handy guides
and tips about the application process and room selection.

Roommate selection
Once you’ve submitted your housing application, you’ll have the opportunity to search for and
connect with potential roommates. You can form a roommate group with someone you
already know or explore profiles to find someone whose living preferences match yours. Make
sure everyone in your group has completed their Housing Profile and mutually confirmed
each other by the deadline—only confirmed groups can be considered together during
assignment.

https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-current-residents/

Page 3 of 8

How to Apply for Housing for Current/Returning Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

If you want to live with a matriculated student who doesn't currently live on campus:
9-month applicants and 12-month applicants can pull in matriculated students which
includes, current students, incoming first year students, and incoming transfer students.
Request them by their student ID number on your application
Complete the 2026–27 Roommate Pull-in Request  by noon on April 7
Tell your requested roommate to apply by 11:59 pm on April 8
Make sure that both of you have exactly the same preferences on your applications

Looking for a roommate?
Search for roommates using our Roommate Finder Message Board  or the Queer-Positive
Roommate Message Board. 

Room Types and building usage
2026–27 rates
Rooms configured for students with disabilities a"ecting their mobility (commonly
referred to as ADA rooms) will be reserved for students who need those accommodations;
students who do not need them will not be able to return to those rooms.

Preferences
Students may apply for a mixed-gender room and select a room with a member of a
di"erent gender, as long as the roommates request one another, and the room selected
has a private bathroom.
Returning 9-month residents can pull in any matriculated UW student who doesn’t
already live on campus.
Returning 12-month residents can pull in any matriculated UW student who doesn’t
already live on campus.
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-current-residents/


Page 4 of 8

How to Apply for Housing for Current/Returning Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Students who cancel because they are joining a fraternity or participating in sorority



recruitment must cancel their own housing applications. HFS will not cancel applications
for returning residents joining Greek Life. Cancellation charges will apply.

Room selection process
We will be in contact with you on April 18 regarding your room selection time. Room selection
will occur the week of April 22.

You have priority for your current room
We will assign you to your current room if you request it
You will have the option of choosing a di"erent room during room selection
If you request and are assigned to your current room and have a mutual roommate
request, we will try to assign you together.

Changes to your room selection
You may search and select a room as many times as you like during your selection period.

If you're not finding a room
You'll only be given search results for areas that you and your roommate are eligible for
and that you both have set as preferences
If your roommates aren’t eligible for the area you are trying to assign yourself to, you will
not be given any search results
If a mutually requested roommate is a smoker, all other members must have
selected smoker or no preference on the roommate smoker preference question on the
application to get search results

Room selection tips
https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-current-residents/

Page 5 of 8

How to Apply for Housing for Current/Returning Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

To maximize your opportunity to assign yourself to your preferred room, plan to log in as
soon as possible after your appointment time begins.
You may change your room as many times as you like during your room selection period.
If you do not select a room, HFS will assign you to one that matches your preferences as
closely as possible.
For the best chance of assigning yourself to one of your preferred rooms, log in to the
room selection website as soon as you can after your appointment time begins.
We cannot accommodate requests for earlier appointments based on schedule conflicts.
Have a backup plan. If there isn’t space available in your preferred building, room, or
apartment type, what are your other choices?

Next steps
Assignment confirmations will be emailed after room selection ends. Please contact us if
you have any questions.
Keep checking your UW email throughout the summer for more information about Movein. HFS will also send you a final assignment confirmation in mid-August.

Cancellation charges
If you decide to cancel your application and assignment, cancellation charges will be based
on the date you submit your notice .

If you are a new resident or graduate student, visit our other
application pages.

https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-current-residents/

Page 6 of 8

How to Apply for Housing for Current/Returning Residents - UW HFS

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Are you a new
resident?

Are you a graduate
student?

Learn how to apply for your future
Husky Home.

Learn more about applying for
graduate housing.

Apply for Housing—New
Residents



Apply for Housing—Grad
Students



Questions? We're here to help!

HFS

UW

CONNECT WITH US

Contact Us
About HFS
Services & Operations

Husky Health & Wellbeing
MyUW
Student Life



Husky Card

Disability Resources for

Sta! Jobs

Students

Meeting Space

Accessible Technology

https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-current-residents/











1045 NE Campus Parkway
Seattle, WA 98105
⫽ hfsinfo@uw.edu

Page 7 of 8

How to Apply for Housing for Current/Returning Residents - UW HFS

Summer Conferences

6/9/26, 11:29 PM

Sustainability

Husky Map

Intern Housing

© 2026 HOUSING & FOOD SERVICES ⫽ UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
 ⫽  ⫽ 

https://hfs.uw.edu/live/apply-for-housing-current-residents/



PRIVACY ⫽ TERMS
π

Page 8 of 8

